README.md, before:

# Argo Workflow Multicluster
Experimental controllers that uses the [Open Cluster Management (OCM)](https://open-cluster-management.io/) 
APIs and components to enable Argo Workflow Multi-cluster capabilities.

**Note:** This is an experimental project and we welcome any community's feedback and suggestions.

## Description
By using this project, users can propgate Argo Workflow to remote clusters based on availabile cluster resource usages.

![multi-cluster](assets/multicluster.png)

There are three controllers in this project.

- Workflow Placement controller watches the Workflow CR and evaluate the [Placement](https://open-cluster-management.io/concepts/placement/) decision then annotates the Workflow with the remote cluster target.
- Workflow ManifestWork controller watches the Workflow CR with the remote cluster target and create [ManifestWork](https://open-cluster-management.io/concepts/manifestwork/) CR which will propgate the Workflow to the intended remote cluster.
- Workflow Status controller that updates the Workflow CR status on the hub cluster with the remote cluster's Workflow's execution results.

See the [Workflow example](example/hello-world.yaml) for the required label and annotation.


## Dependencies
- The Open Cluster Management (OCM) multi-cluster environment needs to be setup. See the [OCM website](https://open-cluster-management.io/) on how to setup the environment.
- In this multicluster model, OCM will provide the cluster inventory and ability to deliver workload to the remote/managed clusters.
- The remote/managed clusters need to have Argo Workflow installed. See the [Argo Workflow OCM Addon repo](https://github.com/mikeshng/argoworkflow-addon#get-started), if you wish to have an auto Argo Workflow installation setup for all your existing and to be managed clusters. 
Alternatively, see [Argo Workflow installation page](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/quick-start/#install-argo-workflows) to manually 
install Argo Workflow to your remote/managed cluster.

## Getting Started
1. Setup an OCM Hub cluster and registered at least one OCM Managed cluster.

2. On the hub cluster, install the [OCM Argo Workflow Addon](https://github.com/mikeshng/argoworkflow-addon#get-started).
Alternatively, manually install the Argo Workflow to the managed cluster. If you are performing a manual installation 
of Argo Workflow then you must elevate the OCM agent permission to access the Workflow objects by `kubectl apply -f example/managed`.
This manual apply step is not necessary if you are using the OCM Argo Workflow Addon.

3. On the hub cluster, install just the Argo Workflow CRD.
```
kubectl apply -f hack/crds/workflows_crd.yaml
```

4. On the hub cluster, clone this project and run the controllers:
```
export KUBECONFIG=/path/to/<hub-kubeconfig>
git clone ...
cd argo-workflow-multicluster
make run
```

6. On the hub cluster, apply the ManagedClusterSetBinding and Placement.
```
kubectl apply -f example/clusterset-binding.yaml
kubectl apply -f example/workflow-placement.yaml
```

7. On the hub cluster, create the example Workflow.
```
kubectl apply -f example/hello-world.yaml
```

8. On the managed cluster, check the Workflow that was executed.
```
kubectl get workflow
NAME                       STATUS      AGE     MESSAGE
hello-world-multicluster   Succeeded   3m52s
```

9. On the hub cluster, check the ManifestWork. Replace `cluster1` namespace value with your managed cluster name
```
kubectl -n cluster1 get manifestwork -o yaml
...
        statusFeedback:
          values:
          - fieldValue:
              string: Succeeded
              type: String
            name: phase
...
```

10. On the hub cluster, check the Workflow to see the status phase is now synced from the managed cluster.
```
kubectl get workflow
NAME                       STATUS      AGE     MESSAGE
hello-world-multicluster   Succeeded
```

## What's next

See the OCM [Extend the multicluster scheduling capabilities with Placement API](https://open-cluster-management.io/scenarios/extend-multicluster-scheduling-capabilities/) 
documentation on how to schedule workload based on available cluster resources.

## Community, discussion, contribution, and support

Check the [CONTRIBUTING Doc](CONTRIBUTING.md) for how to contribute to the repo.

### Communication channels

Slack channel: [#open-cluster-mgmt](https://kubernetes.slack.com/channels/open-cluster-mgmt)

## License

This code is released under the Apache 2.0 license. See the file [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more information.

Commit message:

Add the ability to fully sync the Workflow status on the managed cluster to the hub cluster dormant Workflow
Signed-off-by: Mike Ng <ming@redhat.com>

README.md, after:

# Argo Workflow Multicluster
Experimental controllers that uses the [Open Cluster Management (OCM)](https://open-cluster-management.io/) 
APIs and components to enable Argo Workflow Multi-cluster capabilities.

**Note:** This is an experimental project and we welcome any community's feedback and suggestions.

## Description
By using this project, users can propgate Argo Workflow to remote clusters based on availabile cluster resource usages.

![multi-cluster](assets/multicluster.png)

There are three controllers in this project.

- Workflow Placement controller watches the Workflow CR and evaluate the [Placement](https://open-cluster-management.io/concepts/placement/) decision then annotates the Workflow with the remote cluster target.
- Workflow ManifestWork controller watches the Workflow CR with the remote cluster target and create [ManifestWork](https://open-cluster-management.io/concepts/manifestwork/) CR which will propgate the Workflow to the intended remote cluster.
- Workflow Status controller that updates the Workflow CR status on the hub cluster with the remote cluster's Workflow's execution results.

See the [Workflow example](example/hello-world.yaml) for the required label and annotation.


## Dependencies
- The Open Cluster Management (OCM) multi-cluster environment needs to be setup. See the [OCM website](https://open-cluster-management.io/) on how to setup the environment.
- In this multicluster model, OCM will provide the cluster inventory and ability to deliver workload to the remote/managed clusters.
- The remote/managed clusters need to have Argo Workflow installed. See the [Argo Workflow OCM Addon repo](https://github.com/mikeshng/argoworkflow-addon#get-started), if you wish to have an auto Argo Workflow installation setup for all your existing and to be managed clusters. 
Alternatively, see [Argo Workflow installation page](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/quick-start/#install-argo-workflows) to manually 
install Argo Workflow to your remote/managed cluster.
- Optional: To enhance the Workflow status feedback from the managed cluster to hub cluster, install the [Argo Workflow Status OCM Addon](https://github.com/mikeshng/argoworkflow-status-addon). By default, only a limited amount of status information is sync back. With the Argo Workflow Status Addon installed, the entire status is sync back to the dormant Workflow on the hub cluster.

## Getting Started
1. Setup an OCM Hub cluster and registered at least one OCM Managed cluster.

2. On the hub cluster, install the [OCM Argo Workflow Addon](https://github.com/mikeshng/argoworkflow-addon#get-started).
Alternatively, manually install the Argo Workflow to the managed cluster. If you are performing a manual installation 
of Argo Workflow then you must elevate the OCM agent permission to access the Workflow objects by `kubectl apply -f example/managed`.
This manual apply step is not necessary if you are using the OCM Argo Workflow Addon.

Optional: On the hub cluster, install the [OCM Argo Workflow Status Addon](https://github.com/mikeshng/argoworkflow-status-addon#install-the-argoworkflow-status-addon-to-the-hub-cluster). This will enhance the status sync from the managed cluster to 
the hub cluster.

3. On the hub cluster, install just the Argo Workflow CRD.
```
kubectl apply -f hack/crds/workflows_crd.yaml
```

4. On the hub cluster, clone this project and run the controllers:
```
export KUBECONFIG=/path/to/<hub-kubeconfig>
git clone ...
cd argo-workflow-multicluster
make run
```

6. On the hub cluster, apply the ManagedClusterSetBinding and Placement.
```
kubectl apply -f example/clusterset-binding.yaml
kubectl apply -f example/workflow-placement.yaml
```

7. On the hub cluster, create the example Workflow.
```
kubectl apply -f example/hello-world.yaml
```

8. On the managed cluster, check the Workflow that was executed.
```
kubectl get workflow
NAME                       STATUS      AGE     MESSAGE
hello-world-multicluster   Succeeded   3m52s
```

9. On the hub cluster, check the ManifestWork. Replace `cluster1` namespace value with your managed cluster name
```
kubectl -n cluster1 get manifestwork -o yaml
...
        statusFeedback:
          values:
          - fieldValue:
              string: Succeeded
              type: String
            name: phase
...
```

10. On the hub cluster, check the Workflow to see the status phase is now synced from the managed cluster.
```
kubectl get workflow
NAME                       STATUS      AGE     MESSAGE
hello-world-multicluster   Succeeded
```

If the optional [OCM Argo Workflow Status Addon](https://github.com/mikeshng/argoworkflow-status-addon#install-the-argoworkflow-status-addon-to-the-hub-cluster) is installed, then you can see the full Workflow status.
```
kubectl get workflow hello-world-multicluster -o yaml 
...
status:
...
  conditions:
  - status: "False"
    type: PodRunning
  - status: "True"
    type: Completed
  finishedAt: "2022-11-12T21:57:19Z"
...
  phase: Succeeded
  progress: 1/1
  resourcesDuration:
    cpu: 9
    memory: 9
...
```

## What's next

See the OCM [Extend the multicluster scheduling capabilities with Placement API](https://open-cluster-management.io/scenarios/extend-multicluster-scheduling-capabilities/) 
documentation on how to schedule workload based on available cluster resources.

## Community, discussion, contribution, and support

Check the [CONTRIBUTING Doc](CONTRIBUTING.md) for how to contribute to the repo.

### Communication channels

Slack channel: [#open-cluster-mgmt](https://kubernetes.slack.com/channels/open-cluster-mgmt)

## License

This code is released under the Apache 2.0 license. See the file [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more information.
